Trigger an Argo Workflow (#971)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/create-self-service-experiences/setup-backend/webhook/port-execution-agent/examples/Argo Workflows/trigger-an-argo-workflow.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Trigger an Argo Workflow

> This example helps internal developer teams to trigger an [Argo Workflow](https://argoproj.github.io/workflows/) using Port's self service actions. In particular, you will create a blueprint for `argoWorkflow` that will be connected to a backend action. You will then add some configuration files (`invocations.json`) to control the payload and trigger your Argo Workflows directly from Port using the sync execution method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example helps internal developer teams to trigger an [Argo Workflow](https://argoproj.github.io/workflows/) using Port's self service actions. We will create a blueprint for `argoWorkflow` that will be connected to a backend action. We will then add some configuration files (`invocations.json`) to control the payload and trigger your Argo Workflows directly from Port using the sync execution method.

```

Create the following blueprint, action and mapping to trigger a workflow.

<details>
<summary>Blueprint</summary>

```json
{
  "identifier": "argoWorkflow",
  "description": "This blueprint represents an Argo Workflow.",
  "title": "Argo Workflow",
  "icon": "Argo",
  "schema": {
    "properties": {
      "metadata": {
        "icon": "Argo",
        "title": "Metadata",
        "description": "Metadata information for the Argo Workflow.",
        "type": "object"
      },
      "spec": {
        "icon": "Argo",
        "title": "Specification",
        "description": "Specification details of the Argo Workflow.",
        "type": "object"
      },
      "status": {
        "type": "object",
        "title": "Status",
        "description": "Status information for the Argo Workflow.",
        "icon": "Argo"
      }
    },
    "required": []
  },
  "mirrorProperties": {},
  "calculationProperties": {},
  "aggregationProperties": {},
  "relations": {}
}
```
</details>

> :::note

Reviewer: @mk-armah not sure what this is trying to say, can you please explain?

Author: For this example, port has not developed an integration for argo workflow, as a result the argo workflow blueprint provided in the example should be manually populated with argo workflow template. This is required because the data for the action is picked directly from the existing data in the argo workflow catalog

Reviewer: @mk-armah I see, thanks. Since this is not trivial, please add short instructions with links on how to achieve this. From the note as it currently is, I don't think readers will understand what to do

Reviewer: @mk-armah have you had a chance to add this?

:::

## Steps

1. Create an Argo Workflow blueprint in Port

<details>
<summary><b>Argo Worklow Blueprint</b> (click to expand)</summary>

```json
{
  "identifier": "argoWorkflow",
  "description": "This blueprint represents an Argo Workflow.",
  "title": "Argo Workflow",
  "icon": "Argo",
  "schema": {
    "properties": {
      "metadata": {
        "icon": "Argo",
        "title": "Metadata",
        "description": "Metadata information for the Argo Workflow.",
        "type": "object"
      },
      "spec": {
        "icon": "Argo",
        "title": "Specification",
        "description": "Specification details of the Argo Workflow.",
        "type": "object"
      },
      "status": {
        "type": "object",
        "title": "Status",
        "description": "Status information for the Argo Workflow.",
        "icon": "Argo"
      }
    },
    "required": []
  },
  "mirrorProperties": {},
  "calculationProperties": {},
  "aggregationProperties": {},
  "relations": {}
}
```
</details>

2. Register an existing `Argo Workflow Blueprint Entity` in the catalog (<b>Recommended</b>)

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Optional

```

  This step is optional, but recommended in order to avoid having to re-enter the workflow input properties every time before executing the action. The workflow should exist in your Argo Workflow deployment instance as well. [learn more](https://argo-workflows.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quick-start/#submit-an-example-workflow)
:::
  <b> Here is how to do so:</b>
  1. The image below shows two ways of ingesting data to Argo Workflow catalog, in this example we will choose the `Manually add Argo Workflow` option
  

>     ![Manually add argo workflow](../../../../../../../static/img/self-service-actions/setup-backend/webhook/port-agent/examples/create-argo-workflow-image-1.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Manually add argo workflow](/img/self-service-actions/setup-backend/webhook/port-agent/examples/create-argo-workflow-image-1.png)

```

  2. Edit the form with the template data of the workflow you wish to trigger. An example template has been provided below for your convenience.

>   ![populate the catalog](../../../../../../../static/img/self-service-actions/setup-backend/webhook/port-agent/examples/create-argo-workflow-image-2.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ![populate the catalog](/img/self-service-actions/setup-backend/webhook/port-agent/examples/create-argo-workflow-image-2.png)

```

>   :::tip

Reviewer: @mk-armah please remove this admonition, you can just write the content as plain text
